Welcome back.
What are the pros and cons of graphs?
Well, when it comes to performance and Big O, it gets a little bit complicated because there are so
many different types of graphs.
You can think of graphs as really useful when it comes to relationships.
They're simply indispensable because some data just needs to be in a graph form.
There's no other way around it.
And there are algorithms around graphs such as the ones that we're going to be talking about in the
algorithm section that allows us to perform operations such as finding the shortest path or traversing
a graph.
But when it comes to graphs, because they can get complicated, scaling is pretty hard.
You need a big company or at least a lot of resources and engineering power to make sure that you build
graph data structures that scale well.
But luckily for us, you usually will never have to implement your own graph in production, or at least
for 99% of the population.
There are tools like Neo Forge, which is a popular database that allows you to build really fast graph
databases.
And most of the time you'll use tools like this to build complex structures to contain our data.
Congratulations.
We've now covered another part of our data structure mind map.
That is graphs we learned about cyclic, acyclic, weighted, unweighted, direct it or undirected.
We are also able to build our own graph.
Now there's still a few things left that I see up there and perhaps over here, which we're going to
get into in the algorithm section.
But for now, take a break, drink some coffee or tea, and I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.